---
title: Apache Usergrid Data model
category: docs
layout: docs
---

Apache Usergrid Data model
==========================

Apache Usergrid models the data for your apps as application-specific
collections of data entities managed within an organization. The
following is an overview of the component hierarchy that makes up the
Apache Usergrid data model, and is intended to help you understand how data
is stored, managed and accessed in Apache Usergrid.

Organizations
-------------

An *organization* contains one or more applications, and represents
administrator-level access to Apache Usergrid. Multiple Apache Usergrid
accounts may be given administrator access to an organization. App
Services accounts can also be members of multiple organizations.

An organization with the same name as your username is automatically
created for you when you sign up for Apache Usergrid. By default, you are
assigned as the administrator of this organization.

Applications
------------

In Apache Usergrid, you can create one or more *applications* within an
organization. Applications represent an instance of application data
associated with an app, and you may create as many applications as you
wish. This allows you to utilize the Apache Usergrid backend in a way that
corresponds to your development process. For example, you might create
separate applications for development and production instances of your
app. By default, all organization have a sandbox application (see [Using
a Sandbox Application](/using-sandbox-application) for important
information regarding the default sandbox application).

Each application provides the infrastructure for storing, retrieving,
updating and deleting the entities and collections associated with a
specific app instance.

Collections
-----------

Apache Usergrid stores all data entities in uniquely-named *collections*.
Collections are created automatically by Apache Usergrid for every entity
type, including custom entities, and are named using the plural form of
the entity type they store. For example, all user entities are stored in
the /users collection, and all device entities in the /devices
collection. An entity can belong to only one collection.

Currently, collections cannot be renamed or deleted; however, all of the
data entities in a collection can be updated or deleted.

Entities
--------

An *entity* represents a basic, JSON-formatted data object that is used
by your app, such as a user, device, event or asset. Unlike records in
conventional database tables, which have a very rigid schema that
defines what they can store and how they can be related to each other,
Apache Usergrid entities are very flexible. This makes Apache Usergrid a
powerful solution for managing data for modern applications, where
people, places, and content often need to be associated in a way that is
most appropriate from a user perspective.

Here is a simple example of an entity:

    {
      "uuid" : "5c0c1789-d503-11e1-b36a-12313b01d5c1",
      "type" : "user",
      "created" : 1343074620374,
      "modified" : 1355442681264,
      "username" : "john.doe",
      "email" : "jdoe57@mail.com",
      "name" : "John Doe"
    }

### Default entities

The following entity types are predefined in Apache Usergrid. For more
details, see [Default Data Entities](/default-data-entities).

-   user
-   group
-   role
-   application
-   activity
-   device
-   asset
-   folder
-   event
-   notifier
-   notification
-   receipt

Properties
----------

A data entity is a set of *properties*, which can each contain any
JSON-representable value, including a nested JSON document. All entities
have predefined properties, but you are free to define any number of
custom properties for any entity. Default properties require specific
data types for validation purposes, while custom properties can be any
JSON data type. Most predefined and all application-defined entity
properties are indexed, allowing you to query collections quickly and
easily.

Individual or multiple properties can be updated in a single operation;
however, partial updating of nested JSON documents is not supported.
This means that all properties of a nested document must be provided in
a PUT request for the update of the nested document to be processed,
even if the some of the values have not changed.

### Default properties

At a minimum, each entity is defined by two properties, both of which
are strings: type and UUID. The entity 'type' is the singular form of
the collection the entity is stored in. For example, an entity in the
'users' collection has an entity type of 'user'. The entity 'UUID' is an
immutable universally unique identifier, which can be used to reference
the entity. A UUID is automatically generated by Apache Usergrid for every
entity when it is created. You can also create custom entities and
entity properties; however, Apache Usergrid reserves certain entity types
with pre-defined properties by default. For a complete list of reserved
entities and properties, see [Default Data
Entities](/default-data-entities).

When you access the system via the API, you’ll always provide your
organization UUID or name, application UUID or name, and typically the
UUID or name of the entity you’re modifying or retrieving.

All entities have the following default properties:

  Property   Type     Description
  ---------- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  uuid       UUID     Entity unique id
  type       string   entity type (for example, user)
  created    long     [UTC timestamp](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) in milliseconds of when the entity was created
  modified   long     [UTC timestamp](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) in milliseconds of when the entity was last modified

Dynamic entities also have an optional name property that is a string
identifier.
